About the website

General Site Theory:
The total goal behind this website is to give you (my family) the means to stay in touch and give updates through a more private means than currently offered in sites like Facebook or Myspace. Because of the unique nature of exclusivity the site will operate slightly differently than a public social networking site. There will be no need to send friend requests. Once you are a member of the website you will automatically be "friends" with all the other members. The site is primarily being developed for my family. However, you can always invite a friend to the website. The friend will be considered a guest and will be subject to the rest of the family. It will be outlined in greater detail upon the launch of the site via the Terms of Service but what this really means is that I reserve the right to remove a friend's account at any time for any reason. The reason will generally be that one (and it will only take one) family member does not want that person to be a part of this site. The reason behind this is that this site is in existence primarily for the family. Overall, I am looking forward to the full launch of this website.

Current version specifications:

    The general layout for how the website will look

Version 1.0.0 (Launch) information:
This is the absolute basic functionality that I want to have to launch the site relatively quickly. As soon as this version launches I will begin work on version 2.

Version 1.0.0 features:

    Profiles
    Global Status Stream
    Personal Status Stream
    Personal Photo Gallery
    The ability to comment on statuses and pictures
    Private messages

Version 2.0.0 information:
Version 2 is what I am truly envisioning this site to be. The reason that these features probably won't be implemented at launch is because these features are going to take quite a while to program and debug. I want to get the site out there and available for your use.

Version 2.0.0 features:

    Global Chat
    Private Chat
    The ability to upload and view video
    Groups (Giving you the ability to filter information to specific groups of people)
    General upgrades to the basic site functionality (i.e. updated looks, updates to the status streams, etc)
    Events (i.e. birthdays, anniversaries, and possibly user created events)
    A mobile version of the website for mobile phone browsers

Other future considerations:

    Android App
    iPhone App
    Windows 7 Mobile App

*This is extremely dependent on me being able to get the Developer SDKs. Plus, in Apple's case (and possibly Microsoft's) I would also need to get the App approved by them for you to be able to download and use. The SDK's can cost money as well as keeping it in their App Store.

This site is currently being developed using:

    Ruby on Rails for the general site
    AJAX for the more advanced features
    SQLite3 for the database
    Git for version control
    Heroku will most likely be used for deployment of the site

Keep in mind that the future features are not set in stone and may change or completely disappear. With that being said, there may be new or different ones that pop up along the way.

This website is being developed for my family and their close friends. It will be exclusive to those people. 